then the Lord appeared to him by the
terebinth trees of Mamre as he was
sitting in the tent door in the heat of
the day so he lifted his eyes and looked
and behold three men was standing by him
and when he saw them he ran from the
tent door to meet them and bowed himself
to the ground my lord if I have now
found favor in your sight
do not pass on by your servant please
let a little water be brought and wash
your feet and rest yourselves under the
tree and I will bring a morsel of bread
that you may refresh your hearts after
that you may pass by and as much as you
have come to your servant do as you have
said so Abraham hurried into the tent to
Sara and said quickly make ready three
measures of fine meal knead it and make
cakes and Abraham ran to the herd took a
tender and good calf gave it to the
young man and he hastened to prepare it
so he took butter and milk and the calf
which he had prepared and set it before
them and he stood by them under the tree
as they ate then they said to him where
is Sara your wife here in the tent I
will certainly return to you according
to the time of life and behold Sara your
wife
she'll have a son Sara was listening in
the tent door which was behind him now
Abraham and Sara were old well advanced
in age and Sara had passed the age of
childbearing therefore Sara laughed
within herself saying after I have grown
old shall I have pleasure my lord being
old also and the Lord said to Abraham
why did Sarah laugh saying shall I
surely bear a child since I am old is
anything too hard for the Lord at the
appointed time I will return to you
according to the time of life and Sarah
shall have a son but Sara denied it for
she was afraid I did not laugh no but
you did laugh then the men rose from
there and looked towards Sodom and
Abraham went with them to send them on
the way and the Lord said shall I hide
from Abraham what I am doing
sat Abraham shall surely become a great
and mighty nation
and all the nations of the earth shall
be blessed in him for I have known him
in order that he may command his
children and his household after him
that they keep the way of the Lord to do
righteousness and justice that the Lord
may bring to Abraham but he has spoken
to him because the outcry against Sodom
and Gomorrah is great because their sin
is very grave I will go down now and see
whether they have done altogether
according to the outcry against it that
has come to me and if not I will know
then the men turned away from there and
went toward Sodom but Abraham still
stood before the Lord and Abraham came
near would you also destroy the
righteous with the wicked suppose there
were 50 righteous within the city would
you also destroy the place and not spare
it for the 50 righteous that were in it
far be it from you to do such a thing as
this to slay the righteous with the
wicked so that the righteous should be
as the wicked far be it from you shall
not the judge of all the earth do right
if I find in Sodom 50 righteous within
the city then I will spare all the place
for their sakes
indeed now I who am but dust and ashes
have taken it upon myself to speak to
the Lord
suppose there were five less than the
fifty righteous would you destroy all of
the city for lack of five if I find
there forty five
I will not destroy it suppose there
should be four he found there I will not
do it for the sake of 40
but not the Lord be angry and I will
speak suppose 30 should be found there I
will not do it if I find the 30 there
indeed now I have taken it upon myself
to speak to the Lord
suppose 20 should be found there I will
not destroy it for the sake of 20 let
not the Lord be angry and I will speak
but once more suppose 10 should be found
there
I will not destroy it for the sake of 10
[Music]
so the Lord went his way as soon as he
had finished speaking with Abraham and
Abraham returned to his place
[Music]
you